SunWikis/GridEngine

Users and User Categories

   There are four categories of users that each have access to their own
   set of Grid Engine system commands:
     * Managers – Managers have full capabilities to manipulate the Grid
       Engine system. By default, the superusers of all administration
       hosts have manager privileges.
     * Operators – Operators can perform many of the same commands as
       managers, with the exception of making configuration changes, for
       example, adding, deleting, or modifying queues.
     * Owners – Queue owners can suspend or enable the queues that they
       own. Queue owners can also suspend or enable the jobs within the
       queues that they own. Queue owners have no other management
       permissions.
     * Users – Users have certain access permissions, as described in
       [45]User Access Permissions. Users have no cluster management or
       queue management capabilities.

   The following table shows the command capabilities that are available
   to the different user categories.

Table – User Categories and Associated Command Capabilities

   Command Manager Operator Owner User
   qacct Full Full Own jobs only Own jobs only
   qalter Full Full Own jobs only Own jobs only
   qconf Full No system setup modifications Show only configurations and
   access permissions Show only configurations and access permissions
   qdel Full Full Own jobs only Own jobs only
   qhold Full Full Own jobs only Own jobs only
   qhost Full Full Full Full
   qlogin Full Full Full Full
   qmod Full Full Own jobs and owned queues only Own jobs only
   qmon Full No system setup modifications No configuration changes No
   configuration changes
   qrexec Full Full Full Full
   qselect Full Full Full Full
   qsh Full Full Full Full
   qstat Full Full Full Full
   qsub Full Full Full Full

User Access Permissions

   The administrator can restrict access to queues and other facilities,
   such as parallel environment interfaces. Access can also be restricted
   to certain users or user groups.
   Note
   The Grid Engine software automatically takes into account the access
   restrictions configured by the cluster administration. The following
   sections are important only if you want to query your personal access
   permission.

   For the purpose of restricting access permissions, the administrator
   creates and maintains access lists (ACLs). The ACLs contain user names
   and UNIX group names. The ACLs are then added to access-allowed or
   access-denied lists in the queue or in the parallel environment
   interface configurations. For more information, see the
   [46]queue_conf(5)^ or sge_pe(5) man pages.

   Users who belong to ACLs that are listed in access-allowed-lists have
   permission to access the queue or the parallel environment interface.
   Users who are members of ACLs in access-denied-lists cannot access the
   resource in question.

   You can also use ACLs to define projects, to which assigned users can
   submit their jobs. The administrator can also restrict access to
   cluster resources on a per project basis.

   The User Configuration dialog box opens when you click the User
   Configuration button in the QMON Main Control window. This dialog box
   enables you to query for the ACLs to which you have access. For
   details, see [47]Managing User Access.

   You can display project access by clicking the Project Configuration
   icon in the QMON Main Control window. Details are described in
   [48]Defining Projects.

   From the command line, you can get a list of the currently configured
   ACLs with the following command:
% qconf -sul

   You can list the entries in one or more access lists with the following
   command:
% qconf -su <acl-name>[,<...>]

   The ACLs consist of user account names and UNIX group names. The UNIX
   group names are identified by a prefixed @ sign. In this way, you can
   determine which ACLs your account belongs to.
   Note
   If you have permission to switch your primary UNIX group with the
   newgrp command, your access permissions might change.

   You can check for those queues or parallel environment interfaces to
   which you have access or to which your access is denied. Query the
   queue or parallel environment interface configuration, as described in
   [49]Displaying Queues and Queue Properties and [50]How to Configure
   Parallel Environments With QMON.

   The access-allowed-lists are named user_lists. The access-denied-lists
   are named xuser_lists. If your user account or primary UNIX group is
   associated with an access-allowed-list, you are allowed to access the
   resource in question. If you are associated with an access-denied-list,
   you cannot access the queue or parallel environment interface. If both
   lists are empty, every user with a valid account can access the
   resource in question.

   You can control project configurations from the command line using the
   following commands:
% qconf -sprjl
% qconf -sprj <project-name>

   These commands display a list of defined projects and a list of
   particular project configurations, respectively. The projects are
   defined through ACLs. You must query the ACL configurations, as
   described in the previous paragraph.

   If you have access to a project, you are allowed to submit jobs that
   are subordinated to the project. You can submit such jobs from the
   command line using the following command:
% qsub -P <project-name> <options>

   The cluster configurations, host configurations, and queue
   configurations define project access in the same way as for ACLs. These
   configurations use the project_lists and xproject_lists parameters for
   this purpose.

Managers, Operators, and Owners

   Note
   The superuser of an administration host is considered to be a manager
   by default.

   Use the following command to display a list of Grid Engine system
   managers:
% qconf -sm

   Use the following command to display a list of operators:
% qconf -so

   Users who are owners of a certain queue are contained in the queue
   configuration, as described in [51]Displaying Queues and Queue
   Properties. You can display the queue configuration by typing the
   following command:
% qconf -sq {<cluster-queue> | <queue-instance> | <queue-domain>}

   The queue configuration entry in question is called owner_list.
