SMAP(1)			       Slurm components			       SMAP(1)



NAME
       smap  -	graphically view information about SLURM jobs, partitions, and
       set configurations parameters.


SYNOPSIS
       smap [OPTIONS...]

DESCRIPTION
       smap is used to graphically view job, partition	and  node  information
       for a system running SLURM.  Note that information about nodes and par-
       titions to which you lack access will  always  be  displayed  to	 avoid
       obvious	gaps in the output.  This is equivalent to the --all option of
       the sinfo and squeue commands.


OPTIONS
       -c, --commandline
	      Print output to the commandline, no curses.


       -D <option>, --display=<option>
	      sets the display mode for	 smap,	showing	 relevant  information
	      about  the  selected  view  and  displaying a corresponding node
	      chart.  Note that unallocated nodes are indicated by a  ’.’  and
	      nodes  in	 the  DOWN,  DRAINED or FAIL state by a ’#’.  When the
	      --iterate=<seconds> option is also selected, you can switch dis-
	      plays  by	 typing a different letter from the list below (except
	      ’c’).

	      b		     Displays information about BlueGene partitions on
			     the system

	      c		     Displays  current BlueGene node states and allows
			     users to configure the system.   Type  ’quit’  to
			     end  the  configure mode.	Type ’exit’ to end the
			     configuration mode and exit smap.

	      j		     Displays information about jobs running  on  sys-
			     tem.

	      r		     Display  information about advanced reservations.
			     While all current and future reservations will be
			     listed,  only  currently active reservations will
			     appear on the node map.

	      s		     Displays information about	 slurm	partitions  on
			     the system


       -h, --noheader
	      Do not print a header on the output.


       -H, --show_hidden
	      Display hidden partitions and their jobs.


       --help,
	      Print a message describing all smap options.


       -i <seconds> , --iterate=<seconds>
	      Print  the  state	 on a periodic basis.  Sleep for the indicated
	      number of seconds between reports.  User can exit at anytime  by
	      typing  ’q’  or hitting the return key.  If user is in configure
	      mode type ’exit’ to exit program, ’quit’ to exit configure mode.


       -I, --ionodes
	      Only  show  objects  with these ionodes this support is only for
	      bluegene systems. This should be used inconjuction with the ’-n’
	      option.  Only specify the ionode number range here.  Specify the
	      node name with the ’-n’ option.


       -M, --clusters=<string>
	      Clusters to issue commands to.


       -n, --nodes
	      Only show objects with these nodes.  If querying to  the	ionode
	      level use the option ’-I’ in conjunction with this option.


       -Q, --quiet
	      Avoid printing error messages.


       -R <RACK_MIDPLANE_ID/XYZ>, --resolve=<RACK_MIDPLANE_ID/XYZ>
	      Returns the XYZ coords for a Rack/Midplane id or vice-versa.

	      To  get the XYZ coord for a Rack/Midplane id input -R R101 where
	      10 is the rack and 1 is the midplane.

	      To get the Rack/Midplane id from a XYZ coord input -R 101	 where
	      X=1 Y=1 Z=1 with no leading ’R’.


       --usage
	      Print a brief message listing the smap options.


       -V , --version
	      Print version information and exit.


INTERACTIVE OPTIONS
       When  using smap in curses mode and when the --iterate=<seconds> option
       is also selected, you can scroll through the  different	windows	 using
       the  arrow keys.	 The up and down arrow keys scroll the window contain-
       ing the grid, and the left and right arrow keys scroll the window  con-
       taining the text information.

       With the iterate option selected, you can use any of the options avail-
       able to the -D option listed above (except ’c’) to change screens.  You
       can  also hide or make visible hidden partitions by pressing ’h’ at any
       moment.


OUTPUT FIELD DESCRIPTIONS
       ACCESS_CONTROL
	      Identifies the  users  or	 bank  accounts	 which	can  use  this
	      advanced	reservation.  A prefix of "A:" indicates that the fol-
	      lowing account names may use this reservation.  A prefix of "U:"
	      indicates	 that  the  following user names may use this reserva-
	      tion.

       AVAIL  Partition state: up or down.

       BG_BLOCK
	      BlueGene Block Name.

       CONN   Connection Type: TORUS or MESH or SMALL (for small blocks).

       END_TIME
	      The time when an advanced reservation ended.

       ID     Key to identify the nodes associated with	 this  entity  in  the
	      node chart.

       MODE   Mode Type: COPROCESS or VIRTUAL.

       NAME   Name of the job or advanced reservation.

       NODELIST or BP_LIST
	      Names  of nodes or base partitions associated with this configu-
	      ration, partition or reservation.

       NODES  Count of nodes or base partitions with this particular  configu-
	      ration.

       PARTITION
	      Name  of	a  partition.  Note that the suffix "*" identifies the
	      default partition.

       ST     State of a job in compact	 form.	Possible  states  include:  PD
	      (pending), R (running), S (suspended), CD	 (completed), CF (con-
	      figuring), CG (completing), F (failed),  TO  (timeout),  and  NF
	      (node  failure).	See  JOB  STATE	 CODES	section below for more
	      information.

       START_TIME
	      The time when an advanced reservation started.

       STATE  State of the nodes.  Possible states  include:  allocated,  com-
	      pleting,	down,  drained,	 draining,  fail,  failing,  idle, and
	      unknown plus their abbreviated forms: alloc, comp, donw,	drain,
	      drng,  fail,  failg,  idle, and unk respectively.	 Note that the
	      suffix "*" identifies nodes that are presently  not  responding.
	      See NODE STATE CODES section below for more information.

       TIMELIMIT
	      Maximum  time  limit for any user job in days-hours:minutes:sec-
	      onds.  infinite is used to identify jobs or partitions without a
	      job time limit.



       TOPOGRAPHY INFORMATION

       The node chart is designed to indicate relative locations of the nodes.
       On most Linux clusters this will represent a one-dimensional  array  of
       nodes.  Larger clusters will utilize multiple as needed with right side
       of one line being logically followed by the left side of the next line.

       On BlueGene systems, the node chart will indicate the three
       dimensional topography of the system.
       The X dimension will increase from left to right on a given line.
       The Y dimension will increase in planes from bottom to top.
       The Z dimension will increase within a plane from the back
       line to the front line of a plane.
       Note the example below:

	  a a a a b b d d
	 a a a a b b d d
	a a a a b b c c
       a a a a b b c c

	  a a a a b b d d
	 a a a a b b d d
	a a a a b b c c
       a a a a b b c c

	  a a a a . . d d
	 a a a a . . d d
	a a a a . . e e		     Y
       a a a a . . e e		     |
				     |
	  a a a a . . d d	     0----X
	 a a a a . . d d	    /
	a a a a . . . .		   /
       a a a a . . . #		  Z

       ID JOBID PARTITION BG_BLOCK USER	  NAME ST  TIME NODES BP_LIST
       a  12345 batch	  RMP0	   joseph tst1 R  43:12	  32k bgl[000x333]
       b  12346 debug	  RMP1	   chris  sim3 R  12:34	   8k bgl[420x533]
       c  12350 debug	  RMP2	   danny  job3 R   0:12	   4k bgl[622x733]
       d  12356 debug	  RMP3	   dan	  colu R  18:05	   8k bgl[600x731]
       e  12378 debug	  RMP4	   joseph asx4 R   0:34	   2k bgl[612x713]



CONFIGURATION INSTRUCTIONS
       For  Admin  use.	 From  this screen one can create a configuration file
       that is used to partition and wire the system into usable blocks.


       OUTPUT

	      BG_BLOCK
		     BlueGene Block Name.

	      CONN   Connection Type:  TORUS  or  MESH	or  SMALL  (for	 small
		     blocks).

	      ID     Key  to identify the nodes associated with this entity in
		     the node chart.

	      MODE   Mode Type: COPROCESS or VIRTUAL.


       INPUT COMMANDS

	      resolve <RACK_MIDPLANE_ID/XYZ>
		     Returns  the  XYZ	coords	for  a	Rack/Midplane  id   or
		     vice-versa.

		     To get the XYZ coord for a Rack/Midplane id input -R R101
		     where 10 is the rack and 1 is the midplane.

		     To get the Rack/Midplane id from a XYZ coord input -R 101
		     where X=1 Y=1 Z=1 with no leading ’R’.


	      load <bluegene.conf file>
		     Load  an  already	existent bluegene.conf file. This will
		     verify and mapout a bluegene.conf file.  After loaded the
		     configuration may be edited and saved as a new file.


	      create <size> <options>
		     Submit  request  for  partition creation. The size may be
		     specified either as a count of base  partitions  or  spe-
		     cific  dimensions	in the X, Y and Z directions separated
		     by "x", for example "2x3x4". A variety of options may  be
		     specified.	 Valid options are listed below. Note that the
		     option and their values are case insensitive (e.g. "MESH"
		     and "mesh" are equivalent).

	      Start = XxYxZ
		     Identify where to start the partition.  This is primarily
		     for testing purposes.  For convenience one can  only  put
		     the  X coord or XxY will also work.  The default value is
		     0x0x0.

	      Connection = MESH | TORUS | SMALL
		     Identify how the nodes should be  connected  in  network.
		     The default value is TORUS.

		      Small  Equivalent	 to  "Connection=Small".   If  a small
			     connection is specified the base partition chosen
			     will  create  smaller partitions based on options
			     32CNBlocks and  128CNBlocks  respectively	for  a
			     Bluegene  L  system.  16CNBlocks, 64CNBlocks, and
			     256CNBlocks are also  available  for  Bluegene  P
			     systems.	Keep in mind you must have enough ion-
			     odes to make all these configurations possible.
			       These number will be altered  to	 take  up  the
			     entire  base  partition. Size does not need to be
			     specified with a small request,  we  will	always
			     default to 1 base partition for allocation.

		      Mesh   Equivalent to "Connection=Mesh".

		      Torus  Equivalent to "Connection=Torus".


	      Rotation = TRUE | FALSE
		     Specifies that the geometry specified in the size parame-
		     ter may be rotated in space (e.g. the Y and Z  dimensions
		     may be switched).	The default value is FALSE.

	      Rotate Equivalent to "Rotation=true".

	      Elongation = TRUE | FALSE
		     If TRUE, permit the geometry specified in the size param-
		     eter to be altered as needed to fit available  resources.
		     For  example,  an	allocation of "4x2x1" might be used to
		     satisfy a size specification  of  "2x2x2".	  The  default
		     value is FALSE.

	      Elongate
		     Equivalent to "Elongation=true".


	      copy <id> <count>
		     Submit  request for partition to be copied.  You may copy
		     a specific partition by specifying its id, by default the
		     last  configured partition is copied.  You may also spec-
		     ify a number of copies to be made.	 By default, one  copy
		     is made.


	      delete <id>
		     Delete the specified block.


	      down <node_range>
		     Down  a  specific	node  or  range	 of  nodes.  i.e. 000,
		     000-111 [000x111]

	      up <node_range>
		     Bring a specific node or range of nodes  up.   i.e.  000,
		     000-111 [000x111]

	      alldown
		     Set all nodes to down state.

	      allup  Set all nodes to up state.


	      save <file_name>
		     Save   the	 current  configuration	 to  a	file.	If  no
		     file_name is specified, the configuration is written to a
		     file  named "bluegene.conf" in the current working direc-
		     tory.


	      clear  Clear all partitions created.


NODE STATE CODES
       Node state codes are shortened as required for the field	 size.	 These
       node  states  may be followed by a special characater to identify state
       flags associated with the  node.	  The  following  node	sufficies  and
       states are used:

       *   The	node is presently not responding and will not be allocated any
	   new work.  If the node remains non-responsive, it will be placed in
	   the	DOWN  state (except in the case of COMPLETING, DRAINED, DRAIN-
	   ING, FAIL, FAILING nodes).

       ~   The node is presently in a power saving mode (typically running  at
	   reduced frequency).

       #   The node is presently being powered up or configured.

       $   The	node is currently in a reservation with a flag value of "main-
	   tenance" or is scheduled to be rebooted.

       ALLOCATED   The node has been allocated to one or more jobs.

       ALLOCATED+  The node is allocated to one or more active jobs  plus  one
		   or more jobs are in the process of COMPLETING.

       COMPLETING  All	jobs  associated  with this node are in the process of
		   COMPLETING.	This node state will be removed	 when  all  of
		   the	job’s  processes  have terminated and the SLURM epilog
		   program (if any) has terminated. See the  Epilog  parameter
		   description	in  the	 slurm.conf man page for more informa-
		   tion.

       DOWN	   The node is unavailable for use.  SLURM  can	 automatically
		   place  nodes	 in  this state if some failure occurs. System
		   administrators may also  explicitly	place  nodes  in  this
		   state.  If a node resumes normal operation, SLURM can auto-
		   matically return it to service. See the ReturnToService and
		   SlurmdTimeout  parameter  descriptions in the slurm.conf(5)
		   man page for more information.

       DRAINED	   The node is unavailable for use  per	 system	 administrator
		   request.   See  the	update node command in the scontrol(1)
		   man	page  or  the  slurm.conf(5)   man   page   for	  more
		   information.

       DRAINING	   The	node  is  currently  executing	a job, but will not be
		   allocated to	 additional  jobs.  The	 node  state  will  be
		   changed to state DRAINED when the last job on it completes.
		   Nodes enter this state per  system  administrator  request.
		   See	the update node command in the scontrol(1) man page or
		   the slurm.conf(5) man page for more information.

       FAIL	   The node is expected to fail soon and  is  unavailable  for
		   use	per system administrator request.  See the update node
		   command in the scontrol(1) man page	or  the	 slurm.conf(5)
		   man page for more information.

       FAILING	   The	node  is currently executing a job, but is expected to
		   fail soon and is unavailable for use per system administra-
		   tor	request.   See	the  update  node command in the scon-
		   trol(1) man page or the slurm.conf(5)  man  page  for  more
		   information.

       IDLE	   The	node is not allocated to any jobs and is available for
		   use.

       MAINT	   The node is currently in a reservation with a flag value of
		   "maintainence".

       UNKNOWN	   The	SLURM controller has just started and the node’s state
		   has not yet been determined.


JOB STATE CODES
       Jobs typically pass through several states in the course of their  exe-
       cution.	 The  typical states are PENDING, RUNNING, SUSPENDED, COMPLET-
       ING, and COMPLETED.  An explanation of each state follows.

       BF  BOOT_FAIL	   Job terminated due to launch failure, typically due
			   to a hardware failure (e.g. unable to boot the node
			   or block and the job can not be requeued).

       CA  CANCELLED	   Job was explicitly cancelled by the user or	system
			   administrator.   The	 job  may or may not have been
			   initiated.

       CD  COMPLETED	   Job has terminated all processes on all nodes.

       CG  COMPLETING	   Job is in the process of completing. Some processes
			   on some nodes may still be active.

       CF  CONFIGURING	   Job	has  been allocated resources, but are waiting
			   for them to become ready for use (e.g. booting).

       F   FAILED	   Job terminated with non-zero	 exit  code  or	 other
			   failure condition.

       NF  NODE_FAIL	   Job	terminated due to failure of one or more allo-
			   cated nodes.

       PD  PENDING	   Job is awaiting resource allocation.

       PR  PREEMPTED	   Job terminated due to preemption.

       R   RUNNING	   Job currently has an allocation.

       S   SUSPENDED	   Job has an allocation, but execution has been  sus-
			   pended.

       TO  TIMEOUT	   Job terminated upon reaching its time limit.


ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       The  following  environment  variables can be used to override settings
       compiled into smap.

       SLURM_CONF	   The location of the SLURM configuration file.


COPYING
       Copyright (C) 2004-2007 The Regents of the  University  of  California.
       Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
       Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
       Copyright (C) 2010-2013 SchedMD LLC.

       This  file  is  part  of	 SLURM,	 a  resource  management program.  For
       details, see <http://slurm.schedmd.com/>.

       SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it	 under
       the  terms  of  the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
       Software Foundation; either version 2  of  the  License,	 or  (at  your
       option) any later version.

       SLURM  is  distributed  in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
       ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of  MERCHANTABILITY  or
       FITNESS	FOR  A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
       for more details.


SEE ALSO
       scontrol(1),    sinfo(1),    squeue(1),	  slurm_load_ctl_conf	  (3),
       slurm_load_jobs	(3),  slurm_load_node  (3), slurm_load_partitions (3),
       slurm_reconfigure  (3),	slurm_shutdown	(3),   slurm_update_job	  (3),
       slurm_update_node (3), slurm_update_partition (3), slurm.conf(5)



smap 14.03			  August 2013			       SMAP(1)
